in this video let us learn the characteristics of dynamic programming
or in other words what kind of a problem can
be solved using dynamic programming
Any problem which has the following two main properties can
The first one is overlapping sub problems property and the
second one is optimal Sub structure property Let us learn
these two properties one by one first one Overlapping sub
problems
Any problem has overlapping sub problems
If finding its solution involves solving the same sub
problem multiple times
For example let us take the nth Fibonacci number
Example
If they break down the nth fibonacci problem we
can clearly see the overlapping sub problem property
That is the sub problems fib of two evaluated twice and
the sub problems fib of one was evaluated thrice
Here the sub problems are solved multiple times to get
the overall optimal solution
Since the end Fibonacci problem has the overlapping sub problem
property we can solve with using dynamic programming let us
Discus
One more example which does not have the overlapping sub
problem property
Let us take the binary search problem in binary
search which is solved using divide and conquer approach does
not have any comman  sub problems each time
The sub problems come at a unique arrayed to find
the element so the binary search problem does not
follow the property of overlapping sub problems
Hence we cannot apply the dynamic programming approach to solve
This problem next let us learn the optimal sub structure property
Any problem has optimal sub structure property
If an optimal solution of the overall problem can be
constructed from the optimal solutions of its sub problems for
example let us take the same nth fibonacci problem
here
Using optimal sub solution of Feb of one and fib
of zero we can construct an optimal solution for the
problems fib of two
Using optimal subsolution of fib of two and fib of one
we can construct the optimal solution of fib of three In general
the optimal solution of the overall problem
Fib of n can be constructed from optimal solutions of
sub problems
Fib of n minus one and fib of n minus
two since the nth
fibonnaci problem has the optimal sub structure property
We can solve it using dynamic programming
If a problem doesn't have optimal sub structure property that
is the over all optimal
Result cannot be constructed with optimal solutions of sub problems
We cannot apply a dynamic programming approach to solve it
So this are the two main properties of a problem
which indicates that the given problem can be solved using
dynamic programming.